Well, now I need to do something
similar to an order page, okay?
But yeah, we will do it directly when
we are filling the rest of the content.
So the difference is that now
you see that little bar there.
So that's loading the CSS and
doing something, and
that the best coffee in town.
It's something that I will delete from
my design because yeah, I don't like it.
Okay, I'm still not seeing data, okay?
So we have the template,
we have the web components, but
we still need to make it work, okay?
And for that,
we are jumping into the last section.
So, look at this, we have already been
playing with this a couple of hours and
we are not seeing anything, so
everything happens in our brain right now.
So, but you will see that it will work.
So the last section had to
do with reactivity, okay?
Reactive Programming with Proxies.
So we are going to learn our
last concept that will finally
mix everything together and
will make everything work.
So reactive programming with proxies.
Let's see.
What's a proxy?
A proxy is a wrapper object.
So it's a JavaScript object that acts as
a wrapper, that lets you intercept and
modify operations performed on
the wrapped object, allowing you to add
custom behavior or validation to
the objects properties and methods.
Say what?
It's a simple way that we have
in JavaScript to listen for
changes in an object.
So every time the data changes, we can
know, so we can react in consequence.
It's like an event listener for data.
Make sense?
So for example, if we have an object,
here is the original object with
a name and an age, we create a proxy.
And it's pretty simple.
We create new proxy.
It receives the object that we
wanna observe and a handler,
we will get into the handler in a minute.
And then, for example,
we can get or set the age and
we can use the object as if
it's the original object, but
we are not talking to the original object,
we are talking to the proxy, okay?
What about the handler?
That's the second argument
that we have here.
The handler, it's an object
with some special functions.
For example, get.
Get is a function that will be
executed every time someone
is getting a property's
value from that object.
So in this case we're asking,
if the property that is asking is the age,
I will take the current value for
that property and I will add years old.
So that's when you do console.log(s.age),
you see 30 years old.
Not 30, because the proxy has added
some value on top of that object.
Does it makes sense?
It looks weird the first time you see it,
but it makes sense at one point.
So this is kind of a getter for objects.
The only difference is that
after you set up the object,
you never need to use
the object directly anymore.
You always need to use the proxy, okay?
That's the idea.
This is using a wrapper design pattern,
also known as a decorator.
It's a decorator, okay?
It's kind of a high order
function in some ways.
So another usage of this, for example,
is that, and this is pretty cool.
You can, for example, validate data types.
For example, if the age is a number,
maybe we wanna create an error when you
set something different, such as a string.
Well, in this case, you create the handler
with the set function that checks
if the property that
you're changing is age.
And then if the value that you
wanna set is not a number,
in that case, you throw an error,
an exception.
And if you do that then,
you will get an error.
Proxies work with objects.
So you cannot do this with numbers,
or booleans, or strings.
Strings, it's kind of, if you have those
situations, you can create the class and
getters and
setters to do that directly with values.
I know at this point you understand
why are we covering proxies yet?
The thing is that the handler is the
object that we pass as the second argument
of the proxy, right?
That's an object that contains traps for
intercepting and
customizing operations performed
on a JavaScript proxy option.
Traps, what's a trap?
A trap is a method on a proxy
handler that intercepts and
customizes specific operations.
So it's kind of that
event that we saw before.
Where are the traps available?
Get, when someone is getting
a value from a property?
Set, when someone is changing
the value of a property.
Has, when someone is checking
if a property is there or not,
deleting the property.
Apply is executed every time someone
is executing a function on that object.
And we know we received the function name,
we received the arguments.
A constructor, when someone is creating
a new instance of that object,
getOwnPropertyDescriptor, defineProperty,
and so on, okay?
So these are traps, so
methods, hooks, if you want,
that you have over that wrapped object.
And why are we seeing this?
One of these traps is important for
us, set.
Because set means that someone is
changing the value of a property.
And what do we have here?
Remember our store that
has two properties?
What if we set the proxy and detect
whenever someone is changing the menu or
whenever someone's changing the cart?
If we do that then,
we can trigger updates in the UI.
Makes sense?
So we can say, hey,
someone has changed the menu.
Someone has changed the cart.
There is a new element or someone
has removed something from the cart.
And we can trigger updates.
So we can implement this kind
of reactive programming.
Yeah, it doesn't look like Angular or
Vue or React, but
they're using the same
techniques behind scenes.
In fact, you can use libraries for
reactivity such as our RxJS.
It's a library that offers you
more control over this, but
we are using Vanilla.js here.
So what if we create the proxy,
we can call this a proxy store,
and we say that it's a new
proxy of that store and
then a handler, Okay?
And now, look at this,
instead of exporting the store, and
this is similar to the idea of
a high order function in React.
We can just export the proxy store.
So the real store is kind of private.
Everyone that wants to talk with our
store will do that through their proxy.
Make sense?
And on that proxy, we can, for
example, implement the trap for set.
Set receives three arguments,
the target object that is being changed,
the property name, and the value, okay?
In our case, we don't wanna validate data,
so it's not our purpose right now.
So the first thing that we wanna do
here is we wanna apply the change.
So we're going to say for the target
on that property, we're going to
actually assign the value because we
are not creating a proxy for validation.
We are getting a proxy for updating UI,
broadcasting that someone
has been changed.
There are many ways to
solve the next problem,
is how we announce that
the data has changed, okay?
We can implement the observer pattern,
we can receive a callback,
just to mix techniques.
So if the property is menu,
what I want is to
announce that the menu has been changed.
Announce to who?
I don't know, whoever wants to know that.
So I'm going to mix techniques here.
And I'm going to dispatch an event over
the window object,
a new event with a name.
Can I call it change?
What's changing?
I don't know, right?
So maybe menu change.
Yeah, but how will we know in the future
if the window will not have a menu change?
Well, maybe we can prefix that.
It's a string.
You can use any string, okay?
Why window and not document?
Does anyone know?
I can use document as well, yeah?
>> Because we now have two documents?
>> Because we have two documents,
we have shadow DOMs,
each one will have its own document.
The window will be one for the whole app.
This is like a global event.
Again, I'm not saying that you
should do this in this way,
it's one way to announce globally
that the menu has changed.
If the property,
if the cart has switched, and
you will see this in action in a minute,
or in 20 minutes.
And something similar when
the cart has changed.
Change or changed, up to you.
And if you wanna use ED or
not, it's up to you.
And this is important,
set should return true or
false in case that you accepted the set or
not, right, something like that.
So we accept the setter.
But the important part here is that we
are not changing consumers of the store.
We are just returning the proxy.
That's why it's similar to
a high order component,
in case you know that design pattern.
So now everyone that is reading or
storing data in our store
is going through the proxy.
And the proxy will dispatch global or
it will broadcast global
events on these changes.